Linux Security: The Complete Iptables Firewall Guide
Course image
75. Challenges - TARGETS
Linux Security Improved. Create professional Netfilter/Iptables Firewalls. All you need to know about Netfilter/Iptables
Rating: 4.6 out of 5
4.6
1,204 ratings
7,972
Students
9.5 hours
Total
Last updated March 2023
English
English [Auto]
What you'll learn
Acquire an in-depth understanding of the Netfilter/Iptables Linux Firewall (chains, tables, matches, targets).
Acquire the skills to build Advanced Iptables Firewalls. Hands-on experience with Iptables.
Learn to work efficiently with IPSET to drop large collections of IPs and Networks (like entire Countries).
Understand Iptables best practices for creating custom Firewalls.
Acquire the skills to configure Linux as a NAT Router.
Acquire the skills to configure Port Forwarding on Linux Routers.
See practical examples for EACH Iptables Command, Match or Target.
Use Shell Scripts to automate tasks like blocking or permitting a service, an IP/Network or a MAC address.
Apply the skills to secure servers, networks, routers or Linux Operating Systems.
Hundreds of hands-on exercises with solutions and quizzes.
Description
This Iptables course covers every major topic related to Netfilter and Iptables including Ipset, advanced matches and targets, NAT, Fort Forwarding, user-defined chains, and many more!

Welcome to the most complete and up-to-date course for learning and using Netfilter & Iptables Linux Firewall, taught by a DevOps Engineer and Professional Trainer.

Just starting out with Linux Security and Iptables? Perfect. This course starts out assuming you're new to Netfilter, Iptables, and Linux Firewalls.

Or maybe you've already tried to learn Iptables by yourself and now you want to put all the pieces together? Then, I'm here to help you! This course has everything you need to know about Netfilter and Iptables.

You'll have lifetime access and you can return and look for a specific Iptables match, target or option anytime you want.

All presentations and Iptables examples used in this course are available for download.

The course contains many quizzes for you to take and test your knowledge.



There are many courses on Linux Security or Iptables. Why should you learn from me?

I'm a Practitioner and an Enthusiast. Welcome to the real world! I have almost 20 years of experience as a Linux Sysadmin, Security Engineer, and Full Stack Developer. I use Linux on a daily basis.

I'm an Educator and I know how to make a syllabus. For the last 10 years, I've trained thousands of people on Linux, Networking, Security, or Programming.

The topics covered in this course are:

Iptables chains and tables

Chains and tables traversal

Anatomy of an iptables rule

Filter large collections of IPs and Networks using Ipset

Filter traffic by country

Iptables matches (implicit & explicit).

Filter Traffic by IP, Network, Port, Protocol, Interface, MAC, TCP Flags, Date and Time, Quota, etc.

Iptables targets: DROP, REJECT, ACCEPT, LOG, REDIRECT, TEE, SNAT, DNAT, MASQUERADE, etc.

NAT

Port Forwarding

Automation using shell scripts

How to use Iptables Best-Practices

Every topic includes many live examples.



After taking this course, you'll be able to:

Have an In-Depth understanding of Netfilter/Iptables architecture.

Understand Iptables chains and tables.

Understand how a Firewall works.

Create Iptables rules that filter incoming, outgoing, or routed traffic based on any possible criteria including the country the packet is coming from or destined to.

LOG malicious traffic.

Prevent DoS Attacks.

Use Ipset to drop tens of thousands of Networks with no performance degradation.

Optimize Iptables firewalls.

Automate different firewall security tasks using shell scripts.

Configure NAT and MASQUERADE.

Configure Port Forwarding (DNAT).

Use efficiently Nmap and Netstat.

Who this course is for:
Linux Sysadmins.
Network Administrators.
DevOps Engineers.
Security Professionals.
Instructors
Andrei Dumitrescu
Software Engineer and Lead Instructor
With over 15 years of experience as a Network and Software Engineer, I perfectly embody the typical profile of a DevOps Engineer with a huge passion for teaching, deeply rooted in my family for four generations.



As a co-founder of Crystal Mind Academy, a prestigious Cisco Academy and professional training center, I am dedicated to teaching cutting-edge technologies to our students.



My contributions to education span across various fields, including Programming, Blockchain, AI, Ethical Hacking, and Linux Operating Systems.



Over the years, Crystal Mind Academy has proudly empowered more than 200,000 students through dynamic in-person and online training programs.



I have meticulously crafted comprehensive documentation, labs, and case studies for a wide range of training courses, including Python Programming, Go Programming, Blockchain Programming, OpenAI API with Python, Linux Administration, Ethical Hacking, and Cisco Technologies.



Outside of work, I maintain a balanced lifestyle by engaging in fitness activities like working out and jogging, delving into captivating books, and creating cherished memories with my wife and children through our shared love of travel.

Crystal Mind Academy
Teaching Cutting-Edge Technologies
The Academy’s goal is to teach hundreds of thousands of people cutting-edge technologies in the fields of Programming and Networking.

Our philosophy is that courses should be taught by real professionals with substantial experience in the industry, who are also great teachers.

Courses are provided by Andrei Dumitrescu, a software engineer with over 15 years experience in the industry and in teaching offline and online course.

Featured review
Max T.
80 courses
34 reviews
Rating: 5.0 out of 5
2 years ago
I've always wanted to get some iptables skills, but the task was like a black hole. I've accumulated a lot of links and tutorials, even read some articles, but the topic always remained in a fog of war... Now I can calmly delete all the links, because the course made them obsolete. The best thing about the course is that it's hands-on and reproducible. NOTE: I've used 2 Ubuntu 20.4 Virtual Box VMs and ran them in bridged network, to ease the Host/VM communication.
Was this review helpful?

Requirements
Local root access to a Linux distribution like Ubuntu or CentOS. No paid software required.
Linux basics like commands, file permissions, text editors etc.
Basic knowledge of TCP/IP stack (how clients and servers typically communicate, TCP, UDP, ICMP, IP's, ports, etc).
Very basic knowledge of other Networking concepts like NAT or Routing.
Get the app
About us
Help and Support
Terms
Privacy policy
Sitemap
Accessibility statement
© 2023 Udemy, Inc.
75. Challenges - TARGETS
Challenges - TARGETS
How to solve these challenges:

Write your solution as root at the terminal or inside a shell script, make the script file executable and run it.

If your solution is not correct, then try to understand the error messages, rewrite the solution and execute the command or script again. Repeat this step until you get the correct solution.

Save the solution in a file for future reference or recap.



Challenge #1

Write the iptables commands that display the help for REJECT and LOG targets.

Are you stuck? Do you want to see the solution for this exercise? Click here.



Challenge #2

Write an iptables rule that REJECTS all incoming packets to port tcp/25 and sends back to the source a tcp-reset packet.

Are you stuck? Do you want to see the solution for this exercise? Click here.



Challenge #3

Write the iptables rules that log and then REJECT the headers of all incoming SSH (tcp/22) packets. Prefix each log line with: ssh in:

Generate incoming ssh traffic and display the logs. Filter the logs by log prefix.

Are you stuck? Do you want to see the solution for this exercise? Click here.



Challenge #4

Change the solution of Challenge #3 and LOG only the first packet of the connection (syn bit set). Deny all packets.

Are you stuck? Do you want to see the solution for this exercise? Click here.



Challenge #5

Change the solution of Challenge #4 and LOG at most 1 packet per second. Deny all packets.

Are you stuck? Do you want to see the solution for this exercise? Click here.



Challenge #6

Using the netstat command list all open ports and established connections (sockets)  of both TCP and UDP protocols both on Linux and Windows.

Are you stuck? Do you want to see the solution for this exercise? Click here.



Challenge #7

Using nmap scan ports 22,25,80 and 443 on 10.0.0.1 (replace it with an IP from you Network).

Are you stuck? Do you want to see the solution for this exercise? Click here.



Challenge #8

Using nmap scan ports 22,25,80 and 443 and service versions on 10.0.0.1 (replace it with an IP from you Network).

Are you stuck? Do you want to see the solution for this exercise? Click here.



Challenge #9

You want to mirror all TCP traffic that arrives at 10.0.0.10 to 10.0.0.1.

What iptables rule on 10.0.0.10 accomplishes that?

Are you stuck? Do you want to see the solution for this exercise? Click here.



Challenge #10

You want to redirect incoming TCP traffic to port 80 to port 8080 on the same host where a Proxy is running.

What iptables rule accomplishes that?

Are you stuck? Do you want to see the solution for this exercise? Click here.